---
layout: post
title: Dinner With the Devil
date: 2024-02-01
summary: The party has dinner with Strahd von Zarcovich
giscus_comments: true
---

The day started with the traveö, Goeff, and an increasingly anxious Ireena, waking at the abandoned mill. The night had been relatively uneventful, so after a brief breakfast, they continued their travel toward Castle Ravenloft. After getting past the gates of Barovia, they were met by Strahd's black wagon waiting for them. Apparently, their host for the evening had decided to send transportation. While Irena, Cinna, Bart, and Goeff continued their journey in the black wagon, Xuza and Darren continued with their own horses and wagon.

In the final part of the travel, the party crossed over a bridge a thousand feet high across a chasm. The bridge creaked noticeably more under Xuzas and Darren's caravan than Strahd's. After safely crossing, the lost travelers arrived at the courtyard of Castle Ravenloft. They were met by the chamberlain Rahadin von Zarovich, who greeted them and told them that dinner was to be served a few hours later. The party was asked to store away their horses. The way to the stables was blocked by a locked gate. Luckily, Cinna knew the command word 'openogatto' to open the way. She also told her friends that this was the only command word of the castle she knew or got to choose.

The hours before dinner were spent exploring the castle. After settling in the guest room, Ireena was asked to meet with Strahd. Since the party thought letting Ireena go alone would be a bad idea, Darren agreed to go with her. Meanwhile, the rest of the party went to look at Cinna's room, located in the farthermost tower of the castle.

The meeting between Strahd and Ireena took place in the audience hall, a floor above her guest quarters. Falling into his old habits, Darren stood an observant guard in the room during Strahds and Irena's discussions. During their meeting, Strahd asked Ireena (mistakenly calling her Tatyana at least once) to stay with him in the castle. In exchange, the cities of Barovia would become calmer, and Irena would (finally) find a place she could call home. Even if Darren could observe some interest, Ireena declined the invitation and returned to the guest quarters with Darren. Darren was unable to discuss any specific details of the offer with Irena because Rahadin constantly escorted the two of them.

Meanwhile, the rest of the party walked through the castle on their way to the tower Cinna calls home. On The way there, they passed through a cathedral, where they found the body of a former adventurer reaching for a silver statuette on the altar. While Bart especially seemed interested in investigating, they instead followed an insisting Cinna toward the furthest tower and a really long (mostly abandoned) staircase up ut. Ascending the stairs, Cinna talked about her strained relationship with the other inhabitants of the castle, suggesting that her room being highest up in the most distant tower was due to the other inhabitants not liking her very much. Arriving there, they found a variety of textiles in numerous colors covering the room, echoing Cinnas' somewhat chaotic personality. They were also surprised to learn that Cinnas's room also served as an entrance for the visitors of Strahds castle arriving in bat form,

On their way back, Barts curiosity got the better of him, and he decided to to get the silver statuette. To be on the safe side, Bart tapped into his newfound powers and raised a zombie out of the diseased body, and told it to get the statue. While he did not say anything, the reanimation of the dead significantly disturbed Xuza. Regardless of one's feelings about necromancy, Bart's caution was warranted; as soon as the zombie touched the statuette, it was instantly obliterated by a lightning bolt of energy. Luckily, it did manage to push the statuette enough to make it fall to the ground, rendering it harmless. Barth then proceeded to pick it up.

Reconvening in the guest quarters, the party filled each other in on what had been going on. Before dinner, they were still visited by two of Strahd's consorts: Escher von Preshlow and Ludmilla Vilisevic. While Esher seemed sympathetic toward the party's predicament, Ludmilla seemed very annoyed that Ireena was with them. Cinna explained that Strahd has a habit of getting bored with current consorts when more interesting ones come along; thus, Ireena's presence in the castle posed a threat to Ludmilla's position.

After some time discussing and getting ready, it was finally time for dinner. The party was again picked up by Rahadin and brought down to the dining hall. For dinner they were joined by Strahd, Ludmilla, Esher, and Volenta. Dinner was served by Helga and cooked by Cyrus Belview. The menu consisted of Lobster Bisque, roast beef and wine sauce, fresh bread, and homemade butter. For dessert, the party enjoyed fresh fruits, the likes of which they had not found anywhere else in Barovia. Strahd and his consorts chose to not partake in eating, only enjoying a reddish drink instead.

In addition to extremely fine dining, the dinner was filled with somewhat tense discussions. It was clear that the other consorts did not appreciate Cinna killing Anastrasya. However, the worst aggressions were held at bay by Strahds's authority. Instead, the dinner discussion revolved around the party's other actions in Barovia. Strahd had grown increasingly agitated by the party meddling in the affairs of the land. Discussions circled around what kind of behavior is acceptable for strangers arriving from a foreign land and whether it is okay for such a group to impose their own values in another land. Besides that, the party learned a bit about the history of Barovia and Strahds's role in shaping it. They also learned that Strahd did not know much about why Xuza and Marillion were in Barovia, which was something about being above his pay grade. They also heard about a new arrival in the castle, something about a thiefling cleric arriving from Madam Eva's camp.

At the end of the dinner, Strahd suddenly declared that while Marillion, Xuza, Irena, and Goeff were free to go. Cinna, Darren, and Bart would stay in the castle, Cinna as a guest and Darren and Bart as prisoners. Strahd and the rest of the consorts left the dinner, leaving Volenta in charge of incarcerating Bart and Darren. However, with some fast(ish) thinking and the sunlight feature of the Xuza medallion, the party managed to escape the castle into the (somewhat dangerous) Barovian night leaving a furious Cinna behind.
